source/linux/Foundational_Components/Graphics/SGX/SGX_Debug_Info.rst, before:

.. http://processors.wiki.ti.com/index.php/SGXDbgInfo

##############
SGX debug info
##############

************
Introduction
************

The TI OMAP/AM/DM SGX Graphics Driver is closely tied to the environment it is
running under and the build configuration. This article mentions debugging
methods specific to Linux.

**********************************************
Baselin-ing the current SGX driver environment
**********************************************

Create the following script to show the current SGX driver environment on the target:

.. code-block:: sh
   :caption: gfx_check.sh
   :name: gfx-check-sh

   #!/bin/sh
   echo "WSEGL settings"
   cat /etc/powervr.ini
   echo "------"
   echo "ARM CPU information"
   cat /proc/cpuinfo
   echo "------"
   echo "SGX driver information"
   cat /proc/pvr/version
   echo "------"
   echo "Framebuffer settings"
   fbset -i
   echo "------"
   echo "Rotation settings"
   cat /sys/class/graphics/fb0/rotate
   echo "------"
   echo "Kernel Module information"
   lsmod
   echo "------"
   echo "Boot settings"
   cat /proc/cmdline
   echo "------"
   echo "Linux Kernel version"
   uname -a

**************************************************
Runtime checks and configuration of the SGX driver
**************************************************

One can confirm whether the SGX drivers have been properly installed by
checking the following:

   - One should have seen the message on serial console: ``Initializing the
     graphics driver ...`` just before getting the Linux shell prompt

   - The ``lsmod`` command shows ``pvrsrvkm`` module inserted successfully
     without any error messages on console.

The SGX driver supports some runtime configuration on the target by using a
configuration file. The optional configuration file is present in the Processor
SDK at :file:`/etc/powervr.ini`.

Configuration items use the following syntax:

.. code-block:: text

   KeyWord=ParamValue

The following sections go over some important configuration parameters.

WindowSystem
============

This configuration item controls the low level window system that the EGL
implementation should hook it up. This item takes the following values:

   - ``libpvrDRMWSEGL.so`` (DRM-based WS for VSync synchronised writes to
     Framebuffer - slower, but avoids tearing)

   - ``libpvrGBMWSEGL.so`` (GBM-based WS where it is up to application to
     perform KMS operations)

DisableHWTextureUpload
======================

This configuration item enables or disables the use of SGX Transfer queue
hardware.

If set to 1, the driver uses software upload (copying from driver to SGX) of
textures, rather than transfer queue (using the SGX hardware).

Useful to rule out problems in TQ.

DefaultPixelFormat
==================

This configuration item sets the default display pixel format.

If one wants to configure the default pixel format, then edit
:file:`/etc/powervr.ini` to have following line:

.. code-block:: text

   DefaultPixelFormat=ARGB8888

For AM3 Beagle Bone Black evaluation module (EVM):

.. code-block:: text

   DefaultPixelFormat=RGB565

***************************************
SGX driver failure modes (installation)
***************************************

Unable to install the kernel modules (pvrsrvkm.ko)
==================================================

1. The Linux kernel must have "modules" support.

2. The kernel module for the Graphics driver must use a kernel source that
   matches what is running on the target.

3. If the services kernel module (``pvrsrvkm.ko``) does not load, it is likely
   because of mismatches between user mode binaries and kernel module. If the
   kernel module built correctly, post the issue on the E2E forum with the
   output of the :ref:`gfx-check-sh` script.

**********************************
SGX driver failure modes (runtime)
**********************************

Vertical tearing, artifacts, clipping issues, or missing objects
================================================================

This could be due to a wrong usage of OpenGL or an issue in the driver. Note
that the deferred rendering mode of the SGX hardware will cause different
behaviour compared to the immediate rendering used on desktops.

Please contact TI through the Linux `E2E forums`_.

Demos are not running at required speed or How to check SGX clock rate
======================================================================

If the demos are running slower than expected, check and ensure that the clock
frequency set for the SGX driver is correct. Use the following code in the KM
kernel driver:

| File - :file:`eurasia_km/services4/system/omap/sysutils_linux.c`
| Function - ``EnableSGXClocks()``

You can print the SGX clock rate in a debug build by using the following:

.. code-block:: c

   IMG_UINT32 rate = clk_get_rate(psSysSpecData->psSGX_FCK);
   PVR_TRACE(("Sgx clock is %dMHz", HZ_TO_MHZ(rate)));

Depending on the TI platform used, this will vary from 200 to 532 MHz. Ensure
that SGX is running at the right clock.

If the clock values are correct and demos are still not running with expected
performance, then application specific optimization is necessary.

Qt demos do not work with PowerVR
=================================

1. Confirm that the GLES2 demos provided in the Graphics SDK are running
   properly with default SDK configuration of the window system.

2. Confirm that kernel module ``pvrsrvkm.ko`` is successfully loaded.

3. Confirm that the alpha value is nonzero using the ``fbset`` command. If not,
   set it to the appropriate value using ``fbset``. QT supports 16 and 32 bits
   per pixel (BPP), but it expects a nonzero alpha value when using 32 BPP.

If there are still issues, post to E2E forum with the output of the
:ref:`gfx-check-sh` script. Also attach the console log, with the following
environment variable set:

.. code-block:: console

   QT_DEBUG_PLUGINS=1

********************
Posting to E2E forum
********************

For suggestions or recommendations or bug reports, post details of your
application to the `E2E forums`_ with following information:

   - Output of GFX environment baseline script :ref:`gfx-check-sh`.

   - Details of UI application, as shown in below sheet:

      `<https://web.archive.org/web/20170909142430if_/https://gforge.ti.com/gf/download/docmanfileversion/220/3798/UI_graphics_reqs_sheet_v1.xls>`_

These two outputs will help in debugging common issues.

.. _E2E forums: https://e2e.ti.com/

Commit message:

chore(gfx): Clarify creation of powervr.ini for SGX debug
Clarify across the file that the powervr.ini file is not necessarily in the
fs. If not, it should be created.  Provide examples of warnings where
applicable.

Signed-off-by: Antonios Christidis <a-christidis@ti.com>

source/linux/Foundational_Components/Graphics/SGX/SGX_Debug_Info.rst, after:

.. http://processors.wiki.ti.com/index.php/SGXDbgInfo

##############
SGX debug info
##############

************
Introduction
************

The TI OMAP/AM/DM SGX Graphics Driver is closely tied to the environment it is
running under and the build configuration. This article mentions debugging
methods specific to Linux.

**********************************************
Baselin-ing the current SGX driver environment
**********************************************

Create the following script to show the current SGX driver environment on the target:

.. code-block:: sh
   :caption: gfx_check.sh
   :name: gfx-check-sh

   #!/bin/sh
   echo "WSEGL settings"
   cat /etc/powervr.ini
   echo "------"
   echo "ARM CPU information"
   cat /proc/cpuinfo
   echo "------"
   echo "SGX driver information"
   cat /proc/pvr/version
   echo "------"
   echo "Framebuffer settings"
   fbset -i
   echo "------"
   echo "Rotation settings"
   cat /sys/class/graphics/fb0/rotate
   echo "------"
   echo "Kernel Module information"
   lsmod
   echo "------"
   echo "Boot settings"
   cat /proc/cmdline
   echo "------"
   echo "Linux Kernel version"
   uname -a

If you are not using any app hints, or have not created the :file:`powervr.ini` file then you should see the following:

.. code-block:: text

   WSEGL settings
   cat: /etc/powervr.ini: No such file or directory


**************************************************
Runtime checks and configuration of the SGX driver
**************************************************

One can confirm whether the SGX drivers have been properly installed by
checking the following:

   - One should have seen the message on serial console: ``Initializing the
     graphics driver ...`` just before getting the Linux shell prompt

   - The ``lsmod`` command shows ``pvrsrvkm`` module inserted successfully
     without any error messages on console.

The SGX driver supports some runtime configuration on the target by using a
configuration file. The optional configuration file is present in the Processor
SDK at :file:`/etc/powervr.ini`. If no file is present, you need to create it.

Configuration items use the following syntax:

.. code-block:: text

   KeyWord=ParamValue

The following sections go over some important configuration parameters.

WindowSystem
============

This configuration item controls the low level window system that the EGL
implementation should hook it up. This item takes the following values:

   - ``libpvrDRMWSEGL.so`` (DRM-based WS for VSync synchronised writes to
     Framebuffer - slower, but avoids tearing)

   - ``libpvrGBMWSEGL.so`` (GBM-based WS where it is up to application to
     perform KMS operations)

DisableHWTextureUpload
======================

This configuration item enables or disables the use of SGX Transfer queue
hardware.

If set to 1, the driver uses software upload (copying from driver to SGX) of
textures, rather than transfer queue (using the SGX hardware).

Useful to rule out problems in TQ.

DefaultPixelFormat
==================

This configuration item sets the default display pixel format.

If one wants to configure the default pixel format, then edit
:file:`/etc/powervr.ini` to have following line:

.. code-block:: text

   DefaultPixelFormat=ARGB8888

For AM3 Beagle Bone Black evaluation module (EVM):

.. code-block:: text

   DefaultPixelFormat=RGB565

***************************************
SGX driver failure modes (installation)
***************************************

Unable to install the kernel modules (pvrsrvkm.ko)
==================================================

1. The Linux kernel must have "modules" support.

2. The kernel module for the Graphics driver must use a kernel source that
   matches what is running on the target.

3. If the services kernel module (``pvrsrvkm.ko``) does not load, it is likely
   because of mismatches between user mode binaries and kernel module. If the
   kernel module built correctly, post the issue on the E2E forum with the
   output of the :ref:`gfx-check-sh` script.

**********************************
SGX driver failure modes (runtime)
**********************************

Vertical tearing, artifacts, clipping issues, or missing objects
================================================================

This could be due to a wrong usage of OpenGL or an issue in the driver. Note
that the deferred rendering mode of the SGX hardware will cause different
behaviour compared to the immediate rendering used on desktops.

Please contact TI through the Linux `E2E forums`_.

Demos are not running at required speed or How to check SGX clock rate
======================================================================

If the demos are running slower than expected, check and ensure that the clock
frequency set for the SGX driver is correct. Use the following code in the KM
kernel driver:

| File - :file:`eurasia_km/services4/system/omap/sysutils_linux.c`
| Function - ``EnableSGXClocks()``

You can print the SGX clock rate in a debug build by using the following:

.. code-block:: c

   IMG_UINT32 rate = clk_get_rate(psSysSpecData->psSGX_FCK);
   PVR_TRACE(("Sgx clock is %dMHz", HZ_TO_MHZ(rate)));

Depending on the TI platform used, this will vary from 200 to 532 MHz. Ensure
that SGX is running at the right clock.

If the clock values are correct and demos are still not running with expected
performance, then application specific optimization is necessary.

Qt demos do not work with PowerVR
=================================

1. Confirm that the GLES2 demos provided in the Graphics SDK are running
   properly with default SDK configuration of the window system.

2. Confirm that kernel module ``pvrsrvkm.ko`` is successfully loaded.

3. Confirm that the alpha value is nonzero using the ``fbset`` command. If not,
   set it to the appropriate value using ``fbset``. QT supports 16 and 32 bits
   per pixel (BPP), but it expects a nonzero alpha value when using 32 BPP.

If there are still issues, post to E2E forum with the output of the
:ref:`gfx-check-sh` script. Also attach the console log, with the following
environment variable set:

.. code-block:: console

   QT_DEBUG_PLUGINS=1

********************
Posting to E2E forum
********************

For suggestions or recommendations or bug reports, post details of your
application to the `E2E forums`_ with following information:

   - Output of GFX environment baseline script :ref:`gfx-check-sh`.

   - Details of UI application, as shown in below sheet:

      `<https://web.archive.org/web/20170909142430if_/https://gforge.ti.com/gf/download/docmanfileversion/220/3798/UI_graphics_reqs_sheet_v1.xls>`_

These two outputs will help in debugging common issues.

.. _E2E forums: https://e2e.ti.com/
