source/debian/Building_Debian_Image.rst, before:

====================================
Building Debian Images Using Armbian
====================================

Introduction
============

Texas Instruments uses the **Armbian** build framework to generate Debian images for its platforms.
Armbian describes itself to be a "base operating system"; that is, a build framework used to build
Linux images optimized for Single-Board Computers.

|__SDK_DOWNLOAD_URL__| provides Debian images, but users can also build these, especially if users
require something custom (such as different kernel configurations or default desktop environments).

Armbian Usage
=============

This document provides high-level information about how to build Debian images for TI platforms,
using Armbian. For a full list of options available for users to configure these images at build
time, see `Armbian Documentation <https://docs.armbian.com/>`__.

Get Armbian
-----------

For the time being, `TI's fork <https://github.com/TexasInstruments/armbian-build.git>`__ of
`Armbian/build <https://github.com/armbian/build.git>`__ maintains support for TI platforms.
Therefore, the first step is to fetch TI's fork:

.. code-block:: console

   git clone https://github.com/TexasInstruments/armbian-build.git

Repository Structure
--------------------

The following files and directories are relevant to this high-level overview:

-  :file:`config/`: This directory has configurations for boards, families, kernel configurations,
   desktop or CLI environments and so on. To find configuration files relevant to TI, see:

   - :file:`config/boards/<TI EVM board>.conf`
   - :file:`config/sources/families/include/k3_common.inc`
   - :file:`config/sources/families/k3.conf`
   - :file:`config/kernel/linux-k3-vendor.conf`
   - :file:`config/kernel/linux-k3-vendor-rt.conf`
   - :file:`config/kernel/linux-k3-vendor-edge.conf`
   - :file:`config/kernel/linux-k3-edge.conf`

-  :file:`compile.sh`: This is the script that the user should run for building Armbian images.

-  :file:`lib/`: This directory stores the scripts that do most of the work in building Armbian images.

-  :file:`extensions/`: This directory has files that define **extension hooks**. In Armbian, extension
   hooks are function signatures, which the build framework calls in the process of building an
   image. However, the build framework does not define these in ``lib/``. Users can define these
   functions and integrate custom steps in the build process. TI has ``extensions/ti-debpkgs.sh``
   extension file. To customize the build process, create a new file in this directory, and define
   your extension hooks there. Once the file is created, be sure to add the following line to
   board/family config file:

   .. code-block:: console

      enable_extension <extension_name>

-  :file:`userpatches/`: This directory stores files that define build parameters, user patches and so on.

Building Images
---------------

Armbian supports both an interactive UI and a noninteractive build process.

.. note::

   This build guide has been tested on an x86 host machine running Ubuntu 22.04. The Armbian :file:`compile.sh` script
   builds in an ARM64 docker container. Install the following packages and configure docker:

   .. code-block:: console

      sudo apt update
      sudo apt install docker.io qemu-user-static binfmt-support
      sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
      newgrp docker

-  To build interactively:

   .. code-block:: console

      ./compile.sh

   The build framework will then display dialog boxes. The user can use this to select the board, CLI
   or desktop environment, kernel configurations and so on.

-  To build non-interactively:

   .. code-block:: console

      ./compile.sh [command] [switch...] [command...]

   A full list of build switches is available at `Build Switches <https://docs.armbian.com/Developer-Guide_Build-Switches/>`__.

   .. warning::

      If build issues arise, try adding these build switches to the end of the build command:

      .. code-block:: console

         GIT_SKIP_SUBMODULES=yes SKIP_ARMBIAN_REPO=yes

   For example, the following command builds the minimal non-RT Trixie image:

   .. code-block:: console

      ./compile.sh build BOARD=<board> BRANCH=vendor BUILD_MINIMAL=yes KERNEL_CONFIGURE=no RELEASE=trixie GIT_SKIP_SUBMODULES=yes SKIP_ARMBIAN_REPO=yes

For a list of boards and branches supported by each SoC, refer:

   .. csv-table::
      :header: "SoC", "Board", "Board Config File", "Branch"

      AM62x,sk-am62b,``config/boards/sk-am62b.conf``,"vendor, vendor-rt, vendor-edge, edge"
      AM62-LP,sk-am62-lp,``config/boards/sk-am62-lp.conf``,"vendor, vendor-rt, vendor-edge, edge"
      AM62SIP,sk-am62-sip,``config/boards/sk-am62-sip.conf``,"vendor, vendor-rt, vendor-edge, edge"
      AM62Lx,tmds62levm,``config/boards/tmds62levm.conf``,"vendor, vendor-rt, vendor-edge"
      AM62Px,sk-am62p,``config/boards/sk-am62p.conf``,"vendor, vendor-rt, vendor-edge, edge"
      AM64x,sk-am64b,``config/boards/sk-am64b.conf``,"vendor, vendor-rt, vendor-edge, edge"


``output/images/`` stores the built images. These images have a ``.img`` extension.

Commit message:

feat(linux): Add initial documentation for BeagleBadge
Add an initial 'How to guide' for BeagleBadge board supported
on Debian in Arago distributions.

Signed-off-by: Judith Mendez <jm@ti.com>

source/debian/Building_Debian_Image.rst, after:

====================================
Building Debian Images Using Armbian
====================================

Introduction
============

Texas Instruments uses the **Armbian** build framework to generate Debian images for its platforms.
Armbian describes itself to be a "base operating system"; that is, a build framework used to build
Linux images optimized for Single-Board Computers.

|__SDK_DOWNLOAD_URL__| provides Debian images, but users can also build these, especially if users
require something custom (such as different kernel configurations or default desktop environments).

Armbian Usage
=============

This document provides high-level information about how to build Debian images for TI platforms,
using Armbian. For a full list of options available for users to configure these images at build
time, see `Armbian Documentation <https://docs.armbian.com/>`__.

Get Armbian
-----------

For the time being, `TI's fork <https://github.com/TexasInstruments/armbian-build.git>`__ of
`Armbian/build <https://github.com/armbian/build.git>`__ maintains support for TI platforms.
Therefore, the first step is to fetch TI's fork:

.. code-block:: console

   git clone https://github.com/TexasInstruments/armbian-build.git

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_variant in ('AM62LX')

   .. note::

      BeagleBadge is supported in Armbian but is not yet supported on **ti-main** branch, therefore run the following command
      before building for BeagleBadge:

      .. code-block:: console

         git checkout 2025.12-beaglebadge

Repository Structure
--------------------

The following files and directories are relevant to this high-level overview:

-  :file:`config/`: This directory has configurations for boards, families, kernel configurations,
   desktop or CLI environments and so on. To find configuration files relevant to TI, see:

   - :file:`config/boards/<TI EVM board>.conf`
   - :file:`config/sources/families/include/k3_common.inc`
   - :file:`config/sources/families/k3.conf`
   - :file:`config/kernel/linux-k3-vendor.conf`
   - :file:`config/kernel/linux-k3-vendor-rt.conf`
   - :file:`config/kernel/linux-k3-vendor-edge.conf`
   - :file:`config/kernel/linux-k3-edge.conf`

-  :file:`compile.sh`: This is the script that the user should run for building Armbian images.

-  :file:`lib/`: This directory stores the scripts that do most of the work in building Armbian images.

-  :file:`extensions/`: This directory has files that define **extension hooks**. In Armbian, extension
   hooks are function signatures, which the build framework calls in the process of building an
   image. However, the build framework does not define these in ``lib/``. Users can define these
   functions and integrate custom steps in the build process. TI has ``extensions/ti-debpkgs.sh``
   extension file. To customize the build process, create a new file in this directory, and define
   your extension hooks there. Once the file is created, be sure to add the following line to
   board/family config file:

   .. code-block:: console

      enable_extension <extension_name>

-  :file:`userpatches/`: This directory stores files that define build parameters, user patches and so on.

Building Images
---------------

Armbian supports both an interactive UI and a noninteractive build process.

.. note::

   This build guide has been tested on an x86 host machine running Ubuntu 22.04. The Armbian :file:`compile.sh` script
   builds in an ARM64 docker container. Install the following packages and configure docker:

   .. code-block:: console

      sudo apt update
      sudo apt install docker.io qemu-user-static binfmt-support
      sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
      newgrp docker

-  To build interactively:

   .. code-block:: console

      ./compile.sh

   The build framework will then display dialog boxes. The user can use this to select the board, CLI
   or desktop environment, kernel configurations and so on.

-  To build non-interactively:

   .. code-block:: console

      ./compile.sh [command] [switch...] [command...]

   A full list of build switches is available at `Build Switches <https://docs.armbian.com/Developer-Guide_Build-Switches/>`__.

   .. warning::

      If build issues arise, try adding these build switches to the end of the build command:

      .. code-block:: console

         GIT_SKIP_SUBMODULES=yes SKIP_ARMBIAN_REPO=yes

   For example, the following command builds the minimal non-RT Trixie image:

   .. code-block:: console

      ./compile.sh build BOARD=<board> BRANCH=vendor BUILD_MINIMAL=yes KERNEL_CONFIGURE=no RELEASE=trixie GIT_SKIP_SUBMODULES=yes SKIP_ARMBIAN_REPO=yes

For a list of boards and branches supported by each SoC, refer:

   .. csv-table::
      :header: "SoC", "Board", "Board Config File", "Branch"

      AM62x,sk-am62b,``config/boards/sk-am62b.conf``,"vendor, vendor-rt, vendor-edge, edge"
      AM62-LP,sk-am62-lp,``config/boards/sk-am62-lp.conf``,"vendor, vendor-rt, vendor-edge, edge"
      AM62SIP,sk-am62-sip,``config/boards/sk-am62-sip.conf``,"vendor, vendor-rt, vendor-edge, edge"
      AM62Lx,tmds62levm,``config/boards/tmds62levm.conf``,"vendor, vendor-rt, vendor-edge"
      AM62Lx,beaglebadge,``config/boards/beaglebadge.conf``,"vendor-edge"
      AM62Px,sk-am62p,``config/boards/sk-am62p.conf``,"vendor, vendor-rt, vendor-edge, edge"
      AM64x,sk-am64b,``config/boards/sk-am64b.conf``,"vendor, vendor-rt, vendor-edge, edge"

``output/images/`` stores the built images. These images have a ``.img`` extension.
