source/devices/AM62LX/debian/index.rst, before:

.. _linux-index:

************************
Debian Developer's Guide
************************

.. rubric:: Welcome to the Debian Developer's Guide
   :name: welcome-to-the-debian-developers-guide

.. include:: /debian/_Debian_Developers_Guide.rst

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 5
   :hidden:
   :numbered:

   /debian/Overview
   Getting_Started_Guide
   /debian/Building_Debian_Image
   /debian/Building_Debian_Packages
   /debian/How_to_Guides/index_How_to_Guides
   /debian/Demo_User_Guides/index_Demos

|

.. rubric:: Feedback
   :name: feedback

If you have feedback, suggestions, or ideas on how to improve the SDK
or docs, it is very appreciated. Please post your ideas to the Linux
forum listed at :ref:`Technical Support <technical-support>`.


+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. Image:: /images/E2e.jpg     | For technical support please post your questions at `https://e2e.ti.com <https://e2e.ti.com/>`__.  |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Commit message:

fix: debian: Remove redundant feedback text
In "Welcome to Debian Developer's Guide" section, we are asking people
to let us know if they have any ideas by clicking on a hyperlink. The
hyperlink leads people to the "Feedback" section, which is the next
section on the same page. Unless one is eyeing the address bar on their
browser, this gives the effect that the link led nowhere.

Since "Feedback" is the next section, where we ask for
ideas anyway, the whole "Please let us know if you have ideas" line is
redundant.

So fix this by removing the redundant line.

Signed-off-by: Suhaas Joshi <s-joshi@ti.com>

source/devices/AM62LX/debian/index.rst, after:

.. _linux-index:

************************
Debian Developer's Guide
************************

.. rubric:: Welcome to the Debian Developer's Guide
   :name: welcome-to-the-debian-developers-guide

.. include:: /debian/_Debian_Developers_Guide.rst

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 5
   :hidden:
   :numbered:

   /debian/Overview
   Getting_Started_Guide
   /debian/Building_Debian_Image
   /debian/Building_Debian_Packages
   /debian/How_to_Guides/index_How_to_Guides
   /debian/Demo_User_Guides/index_Demos

|

.. rubric:: Feedback
   :name: feedback

We are always striving to improve this product. If you have feedback, suggestions,
or ideas on how to improve the SDK or docs, it is very appreciated. Please post your
ideas to the Linux forum listed at :ref:`Technical Support <technical-support>`.


+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. Image:: /images/E2e.jpg     | For technical support please post your questions at `https://e2e.ti.com <https://e2e.ti.com/>`__.  |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
