source/linux/Foundational_Components/Graphics/Common/Weston.rst, before:

######
Weston
######

Weston provides support for many displays in an extended desktop mode and the
ability to drag-and-drop windows from one display to the other.

It has support for many backends. By default it will use the ``drm`` backend
unless given the ``WAYLAND_DISPLAY`` environment variable. This backend will
register the compositor as the controller of the KMS interface and will pick up
human interface device (HID) input by using ``evdev``.

If the ``WAYLAND_DISPLAY`` variable is present, Weston will use the ``wayland``
backend for nested composition. This is useful for development, but is normally
not what you want for standard composition use. See
:ref:`starting-weston-manually` or `the upstream weston documentation`_ for more
information.

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_variant in ('AM62PX', 'J722S')

   The |__PART_FAMILY_NAME__| group of devices actually utilizes two separate
   DSS modules enumerated under two different :file:`/dev/dri/card*` devices.

   Weston versions newer than ``11.0.91`` can specify additional card devices
   via the ``--additional-devices`` command line parameter when using the
   ``drm`` backend.

   To launch Weston using both card0 and card1, you can use the following
   command:

   .. code-block:: console

      # weston --drm-device=card0 --additional-devices=card1

   You may also modify the Weston service to have systemd do this automatically
   on launch by editing :file:`/usr/share/wayland-sessions/weston.desktop` and
   modifying the ``Exec`` line:

   .. code-block:: ini

      [Desktop Entry]
      Exec=weston --drm-device=card0 --additional-devices=card1

   Please note, however, that Weston cannot use by-path identifiers and
   consistent naming of DRI devices is not the default behavior.

***************************
Starting Weston with Emptty
***************************

Starting with SDK 11.0, the preferred way to start Weston is with the ``weston``
user, using the display manager ``emptty``. Emptty is a console based display
manager that coordinates the loading of devices with the initialization of any
specified graphical environment. By default it will automatically start
``weston`` under the weston user on device startup.

If you need to interact with this instance with any other user, then make sure
that user is capable of interacting with the wayland socket. This will be
:file:`wayland-1` under the ``weston`` user's ``XDG_RUNTIME_DIR``,
:file:`/run/user/1000/`. We do not recommend running graphical applications as
root.

To start the systemd service manually, do the following:

.. code-block:: console

   # systemctl start emptty

To inspect the systemd service status, do the following:

.. code-block:: console

   # systemctl status emptty

.. _starting-weston-manually:

************************
Starting Weston manually
************************

To start Weston manually with the DRM backend, do the following:

On the default display:

.. code-block:: console

   # weston --display=<default connector-id>

On the secondary display:

.. code-block:: console

   # weston --display=<secondary connector-id>

On all connected displays (LCD and HDMI):

.. code-block:: console

   # weston

By default, the screen saver timeout will be 300 seconds. The user can change
the screen saver timeout using a command line option:

.. code-block:: text

   --idle-time=<number of seconds>

For example, to set timeout of 10 minutes and Weston configured to
display on all connectors, use the following command:

.. code-block:: console

   # weston --idle-time=600

To disable the screen timeout and to configure Weston to display on all
connectors, use the following command:

.. code-block:: console

   # weston --idle-time=0

If you face any issues with the earlier procedure, see `the upstream weston
documentation`_ for troubleshooting tips.

.. _the upstream weston documentation:
   https://wayland.pages.freedesktop.org/weston/toc/running-weston.html

The filesystem includes a preconfigured :file:`weston.ini` file located at
:file:`/etc/xdg/weston/weston.ini`.

.. _stopping-weston:

***************
Stopping Weston
***************

Stop all Weston clients before exiting Weston. If you have invoked
Weston from the serial console, exit Weston by pressing Ctrl-C.

If Weston started automatically through the display manager, then it the
following will stop it:

.. code-block:: console

   # systemctl stop emptty

It is also possible to start Weston from the native console, exit
Weston by pressing Ctrl-Alt-Backspace.

**********************
Running Weston clients
**********************

Weston client examples can run from the command line on a serial port
console or an SSH console. After launching Weston, the user should be
able to use the keyboard and the mouse for various controls.

.. code-block:: console

   # /usr/bin/weston-flower
   # /usr/bin/weston-clickdot
   # /usr/bin/weston-cliptest
   # /usr/bin/weston-dnd
   # /usr/bin/weston-editor
   # /usr/bin/weston-eventdemo
   # /usr/bin/weston-image /usr/share/weston/terminal.png
   # /usr/bin/weston-resizor
   # /usr/bin/weston-simple-egl
   # /usr/bin/weston-simple-shm
   # /usr/bin/weston-simple-touch
   # /usr/bin/weston-smoke
   # /usr/bin/weston-info
   # /usr/bin/weston-terminal

************************************
Running multimedia with Wayland sink
************************************

The GStreamer video sink for Wayland is the ``waylandsink``. To use this
video-sink for video playback:

.. code-block:: console

   # gst-launch-1.0 playbin uri=file://<path_to_file_name> video-sink=waylandsink

*******************************************
Using in-vehicle infotainment shell feature
*******************************************

The SDK also has support for configuring Weston ivi-shell. The default shell in
the SDK is the desktop-shell.

To change the shell to ivi-shell, the user will have to add the following lines
into the :file:`/etc/xdg/weston/weston.ini`.

To switch back to the desktop-shell, comment these lines in the
:file:`/etc/xdg/weston/weston.ini` (comments begin with a '#' at the start of
line).

.. code-block:: ini

   [core]
   shell=ivi-shell.so

After the earlier configuration, we can restart Weston by running the following
command:

.. code-block:: console

   # systemctl restart emptty

.. note::

   When Weston starts with ivi-shell, the default background is black, this is
   different from the desktop-shell that brings up a window with background.

With ivi-shell configured for Weston, a central Human Machine Interface (HMI)
manages Wayland client applications and they can use ivi-application protocol to
interact with it.

The HMI central controller will assign clients with an unique numeric ID
assuming they support the ``ivi_application`` Wayland protocol.

See the following for more information about the Weston IVI-shell:

   - `<https://wayland.pages.freedesktop.org/weston/toc/ivi-shell.html>`_

Commit message:

feat(weston): explain the wayland_display variable
Explain the WAYLAND_DISPLAY variable more since I've gotten questions
about it's usage recently. Call out XDG_RUNTIME_DIR as well, to avoid
issues.

Signed-off-by: Randolph Sapp <rs@ti.com>

source/linux/Foundational_Components/Graphics/Common/Weston.rst, after:

######
Weston
######

Weston provides support for many displays in an extended desktop mode and the
ability to drag-and-drop windows from one display to the other.

It has support for many backends. By default it will use the ``drm`` backend
unless given the ``WAYLAND_DISPLAY`` environment variable. This backend will
register the compositor as the controller of the KMS interface and will pick up
human interface device (HID) input by using ``evdev``.

If the ``WAYLAND_DISPLAY`` variable is present, Weston will use the ``wayland``
backend for nested composition. This is useful for development, but is normally
not what you want for standard composition use. See
:ref:`starting-weston-manually` or `the upstream weston documentation`_ for more
information.

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_variant in ('AM62PX', 'J722S')

   The |__PART_FAMILY_NAME__| group of devices actually utilizes two separate
   DSS modules enumerated under two different :file:`/dev/dri/card*` devices.

   Weston versions newer than ``11.0.91`` can specify additional card devices
   via the ``--additional-devices`` command line parameter when using the
   ``drm`` backend.

   To launch Weston using both card0 and card1, you can use the following
   command:

   .. code-block:: console

      # weston --drm-device=card0 --additional-devices=card1

   You may also modify the Weston service to have systemd do this automatically
   on launch by editing :file:`/usr/share/wayland-sessions/weston.desktop` and
   modifying the ``Exec`` line:

   .. code-block:: ini

      [Desktop Entry]
      Exec=weston --drm-device=card0 --additional-devices=card1

   Please note, however, that Weston cannot use by-path identifiers and
   consistent naming of DRI devices is not the default behavior.

***************************
Starting Weston with Emptty
***************************

Starting with SDK 11.0, the preferred way to start Weston is with the ``weston``
user, using the display manager ``emptty``. Emptty is a console based display
manager that coordinates the loading of devices with the initialization of any
specified graphical environment. By default it will automatically start
``weston`` under the weston user on device startup.

If you need to interact with this instance with any other user, then make sure
that user is capable of interacting with the wayland socket. This will be
:file:`wayland-1` under the ``weston`` user's ``XDG_RUNTIME_DIR``,
:file:`/run/user/1000/`. We do not recommend running graphical applications as
root. See :ref:`running-weston-clients` for more information.

To start the systemd service manually, do the following:

.. code-block:: console

   # systemctl start emptty

To inspect the systemd service status, do the following:

.. code-block:: console

   # systemctl status emptty

.. _starting-weston-manually:

************************
Starting Weston manually
************************

To start Weston manually with the DRM backend, do the following:

On the default display:

.. code-block:: console

   # weston --display=<default connector-id>

On the secondary display:

.. code-block:: console

   # weston --display=<secondary connector-id>

On all connected displays (LCD and HDMI):

.. code-block:: console

   # weston

By default, the screen saver timeout will be 300 seconds. The user can change
the screen saver timeout using a command line option:

.. code-block:: text

   --idle-time=<number of seconds>

For example, to set timeout of 10 minutes and Weston configured to
display on all connectors, use the following command:

.. code-block:: console

   # weston --idle-time=600

To disable the screen timeout and to configure Weston to display on all
connectors, use the following command:

.. code-block:: console

   # weston --idle-time=0

If you face any issues with the earlier procedure, see `the upstream weston
documentation`_ for troubleshooting tips.

.. _the upstream weston documentation:
   https://wayland.pages.freedesktop.org/weston/toc/running-weston.html

The filesystem includes a preconfigured :file:`weston.ini` file located at
:file:`/etc/xdg/weston/weston.ini`.

.. _stopping-weston:

***************
Stopping Weston
***************

Stop all Weston clients before exiting Weston. If you have invoked
Weston from the serial console, exit Weston by pressing Ctrl-C.

If Weston started automatically through the display manager, then it the
following will stop it:

.. code-block:: console

   # systemctl stop emptty

It is also possible to start Weston from the native console, exit
Weston by pressing Ctrl-Alt-Backspace.

.. _running-weston-clients:

**********************
Running Weston clients
**********************

Weston client examples can run from the command line on a serial port
console or an SSH console. After launching Weston, the user should be
able to use the keyboard and the mouse for various controls.

The ``WAYLAND_DISPLAY`` variable informs clients what socket they should
interact with. Typically these sockets are under the ``XDG_RUNTIME_DIR``,
allowing ``WAYLAND_DISPLAY`` to be a file name. The ``WAYLAND_DISPLAY`` variable
can also be a full path to the socket.

Applications stated from terminal sessions running under the Weston process will
have this variable set automatically. If it is not set automatically and the
process is running under the same user as Weston, then you should only have to
set ``WAYLAND_DISPLAY`` to :file:`wayland-{X}`. Here ``X`` is the session
number, which should start at 1 and increment for each simultaneous instance of
Weston started.

Do not set the ``XDG_RUNTIME_DIR`` variable to any other user's runtime
directory. This will cause issues with other applications. If that user can
interact with another users socket, point ``WAYLAND_DISPLAY`` to the full path
of the socket instead. For example ``WAYLAND_DISPLAY=/run/user/1000/wayland-1``
allows an application to interact with user ID 1000's session.

.. code-block:: console

   # /usr/bin/weston-flower
   # /usr/bin/weston-clickdot
   # /usr/bin/weston-cliptest
   # /usr/bin/weston-dnd
   # /usr/bin/weston-editor
   # /usr/bin/weston-eventdemo
   # /usr/bin/weston-image /usr/share/weston/terminal.png
   # /usr/bin/weston-resizor
   # /usr/bin/weston-simple-egl
   # /usr/bin/weston-simple-shm
   # /usr/bin/weston-simple-touch
   # /usr/bin/weston-smoke
   # /usr/bin/weston-info
   # /usr/bin/weston-terminal

************************************
Running multimedia with Wayland sink
************************************

The GStreamer video sink for Wayland is the ``waylandsink``. To use this
video-sink for video playback:

.. code-block:: console

   # gst-launch-1.0 playbin uri=file://<path_to_file_name> video-sink=waylandsink

*******************************************
Using in-vehicle infotainment shell feature
*******************************************

The SDK also has support for configuring Weston ivi-shell. The default shell in
the SDK is the desktop-shell.

To change the shell to ivi-shell, the user will have to add the following lines
into the :file:`/etc/xdg/weston/weston.ini`.

To switch back to the desktop-shell, comment these lines in the
:file:`/etc/xdg/weston/weston.ini` (comments begin with a '#' at the start of
line).

.. code-block:: ini

   [core]
   shell=ivi-shell.so

After the earlier configuration, we can restart Weston by running the following
command:

.. code-block:: console

   # systemctl restart emptty

.. note::

   When Weston starts with ivi-shell, the default background is black, this is
   different from the desktop-shell that brings up a window with background.

With ivi-shell configured for Weston, a central Human Machine Interface (HMI)
manages Wayland client applications and they can use ivi-application protocol to
interact with it.

The HMI central controller will assign clients with an unique numeric ID
assuming they support the ``ivi_application`` Wayland protocol.

See the following for more information about the Weston IVI-shell:

   - `<https://wayland.pages.freedesktop.org/weston/toc/ivi-shell.html>`_
