source/android/Overview_Building_the_SDK.rst, before:

.. _android-building:

################
Building the SDK
################

**************
Build PC setup
**************

Please refer to the following pages from Android documentation to setup your environment for Android build:

-  `Android's Build
   requirements <https://source.android.com/setup/build/requirements>`__.
-  `Android's Establishing a Build
   Environment <https://source.android.com/setup/build/initializing>`__
   guide.


**Getting the repo tool**

You will need the ``repo`` tool to retrieve repositories.
To install it, please refer to this webpage : https://source.android.com/setup/develop#installing-repo

.. _android-download-aosp:

*******************
Downloading sources
*******************

Create a folder for downloading all sources

.. code-block:: console

   $ mkdir ~/11_00_00 && cd $_
   $ export YOUR_PATH=$PWD

Fetch the code using ``repo``:

.. code-block:: console

   $ mkdir ${YOUR_PATH}/ti-aosp-16 && cd $_
   $ repo init -u https://git.ti.com/git/android/manifest.git -b android16-release -m releases/RLS_11_00_00.xml
   $ repo sync

.. tip::

   By default the Android build contains **pre-built binaries** for both the kernel
   and the bootloaders.
   The pre-builts are located in in :file:`device/ti/am62x-kernel`
   and :file:`vendor/ti/am62x/bootloader` folder.

   To get the sources, refer to:

   - :ref:`android-download-kernel` for kernel
   - :ref:`android-download-bootloaders` for bootloaders

.. _android-build-aosp:

******************
Build Instructions
******************

.. code-block:: console

   $ cd ${YOUR_PATH}/ti-aosp-16
   $ source build/envsetup.sh
   $ lunch <BUILD_TARGET>
   $ m
   [...]
   #### build completed successfully (49:14 (mm:ss)) ####

Where ``<BUILD_TARGET>`` is listed in the table below :

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_variant in ('AM62X')

    ============================= ============================
    Android Build type            Build target
    ============================= ============================
    AM62X-SK Tablet userdebug       ``am62x-bp2a-userdebug``
    AM62X-SK Tablet user            ``am62x-bp2a-user``
    AM62X-SK Car userdebug          ``am62x_car-bp2a-userdebug``
    AM62X-SK Car user               ``am62x_car-bp2a-user``
    ============================= ============================

    The recommended ``<BUILD_TARGET>`` is ``am62x-bp2a-userdebug``.

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_variant in ('AM62PX')

    ============================= ============================
    Android Build type            Build target
    ============================= ============================
    AM62PX-SK Tablet userdebug       ``am62p-bp2a-userdebug``
    AM62PX-SK Tablet user            ``am62p-bp2a-user``
    AM62PX-SK Car userdebug          ``am62p_car-bp2a-userdebug``
    AM62PX-SK Car user               ``am62p_car-bp2a-user``
    ============================= ============================

    The recommended ``<BUILD_TARGET>`` is ``am62p-bp2a-userdebug``.

It's possible to customize the standard build (``m``), by passing build flags.
For example, the following enables ADB on user builds:

.. code-block:: console

  $ TARGET_ADB_USER_ENABLE=true m

The following build flags are available. **Default** values are **highlighted**.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Flag
     - Possible values
     - Description
   * - ``TARGET_ADB_USER_ENABLE``
     - **false**/true
     - Forces enable ADB on user builds (**NOT for production builds**)
   * - ``TARGET_SDCARD_BOOT``
     - **false**/true
     - Boot from SD card instead of eMMC
   * - ``FACTORY_BUILD``
     - **false**/true
     - Enable factory build (TA AVB, OEMLock HAL, RPMB support, device lock/unlock support, some security features in keymint). See :ref:`Application_Notes_Android_Secure_Build` for more details.

After building is complete, the necessary images will be available in
:file:`${YOUR_PATH}/ti-aosp-16/out/target/product/am62*/`.

To proceed to flash Android, see :ref:`android-flashing`.

.. tip::

   As stated previously, Android build contains **pre-built binaries**
   for both the kernel and the bootloaders.
   These are ready to be used as-is with the EVM boards.
   For customization, it's possible to rebuild them.

   - See :ref:`android-build-kernel` for the kernel
   - See :ref:`android-build-bootloaders` for the bootloaders

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_variant in ('AM62X')

    The android images generated for the AM62X-SK EVM are compatible with the Beagle Play board.
    For flashing the Beagle Play, see the :ref:`beagleplay-app-note`.

Commit message:

feat(android): AM67A: add new android platform
Copy from AM62PX Android platform documentation and rename to add AM67A
support.

Signed-off-by: Guillaume La Roque <glaroque@baylibre.com>

source/android/Overview_Building_the_SDK.rst, after:

.. _android-building:

################
Building the SDK
################

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_variant in ('AM67A')

   .. note::

      The android images generated for the AM67A-EVM are not compatible with the BeagleY-AI board.
      For building and flashing the BeagleY-AI, see the :ref:`beagley-ai-app-note`.

**************
Build PC setup
**************

Please refer to the following pages from Android documentation to setup your environment for Android build:

-  `Android's Build
   requirements <https://source.android.com/setup/build/requirements>`__.
-  `Android's Establishing a Build
   Environment <https://source.android.com/setup/build/initializing>`__
   guide.


**Getting the repo tool**

You will need the ``repo`` tool to retrieve repositories.
To install it, please refer to this webpage : https://source.android.com/setup/develop#installing-repo

.. _android-download-aosp:

*******************
Downloading sources
*******************

Create a folder for downloading all sources

.. code-block:: console

   $ mkdir ~/11_00_00 && cd $_
   $ export YOUR_PATH=$PWD

Fetch the code using ``repo``:

.. code-block:: console

   $ mkdir ${YOUR_PATH}/ti-aosp-16 && cd $_
   $ repo init -u https://git.ti.com/git/android/manifest.git -b android16-release -m releases/RLS_11_00_00.xml
   $ repo sync

.. tip::

   By default the Android build contains **pre-built binaries** for both the kernel
   and the bootloaders.
   The pre-builts are located in in :file:`device/ti/am62x-kernel`
   and :file:`vendor/ti/am62x/bootloader` folder.

   To get the sources, refer to:

   - :ref:`android-download-kernel` for kernel
   - :ref:`android-download-bootloaders` for bootloaders

.. _android-build-aosp:

******************
Build Instructions
******************

.. code-block:: console

   $ cd ${YOUR_PATH}/ti-aosp-16
   $ source build/envsetup.sh
   $ lunch <BUILD_TARGET>
   $ m
   [...]
   #### build completed successfully (49:14 (mm:ss)) ####

Where ``<BUILD_TARGET>`` is listed in the table below :

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_variant in ('AM62X')

    ============================= ============================
    Android Build type            Build target
    ============================= ============================
    AM62X-SK Tablet userdebug       ``am62x-bp2a-userdebug``
    AM62X-SK Tablet user            ``am62x-bp2a-user``
    AM62X-SK Car userdebug          ``am62x_car-bp2a-userdebug``
    AM62X-SK Car user               ``am62x_car-bp2a-user``
    ============================= ============================

    The recommended ``<BUILD_TARGET>`` is ``am62x-bp2a-userdebug``.

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_variant in ('AM62PX')

    ============================= ============================
    Android Build type            Build target
    ============================= ============================
    AM62PX-SK Tablet userdebug       ``am62p-bp2a-userdebug``
    AM62PX-SK Tablet user            ``am62p-bp2a-user``
    AM62PX-SK Car userdebug          ``am62p_car-bp2a-userdebug``
    AM62PX-SK Car user               ``am62p_car-bp2a-user``
    ============================= ============================

    The recommended ``<BUILD_TARGET>`` is ``am62p-bp2a-userdebug``.

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_variant in ('AM67A')

    ============================= ============================
    Android Build type            Build target
    ============================= ============================
    AM67A-EVM Tablet userdebug       ``am67a-bp2a-userdebug``
    AM67A-EVM Tablet user            ``am67a-bp2a-user``
    AM67A-EVM Car userdebug          ``am67a_car-bp2a-userdebug``
    AM67A-EVM Car user               ``am67a_car-bp2a-user``
    ============================= ============================

    The recommended ``<BUILD_TARGET>`` is ``am67a-bp2a-userdebug``.

It's possible to customize the standard build (``m``), by passing build flags.
For example, the following enables ADB on user builds:

.. code-block:: console

  $ TARGET_ADB_USER_ENABLE=true m

The following build flags are available. **Default** values are **highlighted**.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Flag
     - Possible values
     - Description
   * - ``TARGET_ADB_USER_ENABLE``
     - **false**/true
     - Forces enable ADB on user builds (**NOT for production builds**)
   * - ``TARGET_SDCARD_BOOT``
     - **false**/true
     - Boot from SD card instead of eMMC
   * - ``FACTORY_BUILD``
     - **false**/true
     - Enable factory build (TA AVB, OEMLock HAL, RPMB support, device lock/unlock support, some security features in keymint). See :ref:`Application_Notes_Android_Secure_Build` for more details.

After building is complete, the necessary images will be available in
:file:`${YOUR_PATH}/ti-aosp-16/out/target/product/am62*/`.

To proceed to flash Android, see :ref:`android-flashing`.

.. tip::

   As stated previously, Android build contains **pre-built binaries**
   for both the kernel and the bootloaders.
   These are ready to be used as-is with the EVM boards.
   For customization, it's possible to rebuild them.

   - See :ref:`android-build-kernel` for the kernel
   - See :ref:`android-build-bootloaders` for the bootloaders

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_variant in ('AM62X')

    The android images generated for the AM62X-SK EVM are compatible with the Beagle Play board.
    For flashing the Beagle Play, see the :ref:`beagleplay-app-note`.
