source/linux/Examples_and_Demos/Application_Demos/Additional_Application_Demo_Links.rst, before:


DLP 3D Scanner
==============

This demo demonstrates an embedded 3D scanner based on the structured light principle, with am57xx. More details can be found at http://www.ti.com/tool/tidep0076

People Tracking
===============

This demo demonstrates the capability of people tracking and detection with TI's ToF (Time-of-Flight) sensor. More details can be found at http://www.ti.com/lit/pdf/tidud06

EVSE Demos
==========

This demo showcases Human Machine Interface (HMI) for Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment(EVSE) Charging Stations. More details can be found at http://www.ti.com/tool/TIDEP-0087

Protection Relay Demo
=====================

Matrix UI provides out of box demo to showcase Human Machine Interface (HMI) for Protection Relays. More details can be found at http://www.ti.com/tool/TIDEP-0102

mmWave Gesture Controlled HMI
=============================

This demo showcases gesture controlled HMI, where the mmWave sensor detects presence and classifies natural hand gestures, and sends them to the Sitara processor to drive the Qt GUI display.
More details can be found at http://www.ti.com/tool/TIDEP-01013.

TIDL Demo
=========

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_family in ('AM335X_family')

    .. note:: This demo is not applicable to AM335X devices.

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_family in ('AM437X_family')

    .. note:: This demo is not applicable to AM437X devices.

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_family in ('General_family')

    Refer to various TI DeepLearning demos documented at
    :ref:`TIDL Examples and Demos <tidl-examples-and-demos>`.

Commit message:

docs(linux): AM57X: Sync with 9.3 forked branch
SDK 9.3 had forked document branck for AM57.
This commit merge back code section into main branch.

Changes in v3:
Fixed indentation

Changes in v2:
1- Fixed indentation in _Users_Guide.rst

2- _Processor_SDK_Linux_Directory_Structure.rst
did clean up as AM57 falls under Jacinto SDK

3- Release_Specific_Release_Notes.rst fixed
Addressed review comments

Signed-off-by: Udit Kumar <u-kumar1@ti.com>

source/linux/Examples_and_Demos/Application_Demos/Additional_Application_Demo_Links.rst, after:


DLP 3D Scanner
==============

This demo demonstrates an embedded 3D scanner based on the structured light principle, with am57xx. More details can be found at http://www.ti.com/tool/tidep0076

People Tracking
===============

This demo demonstrates the capability of people tracking and detection with TI's ToF (Time-of-Flight) sensor. More details can be found at http://www.ti.com/lit/pdf/tidud06

EVSE Demos
==========

This demo showcases Human Machine Interface (HMI) for Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment(EVSE) Charging Stations. More details can be found at http://www.ti.com/tool/TIDEP-0087

Protection Relay Demo
=====================

Matrix UI provides out of box demo to showcase Human Machine Interface (HMI) for Protection Relays. More details can be found at http://www.ti.com/tool/TIDEP-0102

mmWave Gesture Controlled HMI
=============================

This demo showcases gesture controlled HMI, where the mmWave sensor detects presence and classifies natural hand gestures, and sends them to the Sitara processor to drive the Qt GUI display.
More details can be found at http://www.ti.com/tool/TIDEP-01013.

TIDL Demo
=========

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_family in ('AM335X_family')

    .. note:: This demo is not applicable to AM335X devices.

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_family in ('AM437X_family')

    .. note:: This demo is not applicable to AM437X devices.

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_family in ('AM57X_family')

    .. note:: This demo is not applicable to AM57X devices.

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_family in ('General_family')

    Refer to various TI DeepLearning demos documented at
    :ref:`TIDL Examples and Demos <tidl-examples-and-demos>`.
