source/linux/How_to_Guides_Hardware_Setup_with_CCS.rst, before:

.. _hardware-evm-setup:

**********************************
Hardware EVM Setup
**********************************

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 5

   How_to_Guides/Hardware_Setup_with_CCS/TMDX654_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   How_to_Guides/Hardware_Setup_with_CCS/AM572x_GP_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   How_to_Guides/Hardware_Setup_with_CCS/TMDXIDK5728_Hardware_Setup
   How_to_Guides/Hardware_Setup_with_CCS/EVMK2H_Hardware_Setup
   How_to_Guides/Hardware_Setup_with_CCS/ICE_AM335x_Hardware_Setup
   How_to_Guides/Hardware_Setup_with_CCS/ICE_AMIC110_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   How_to_Guides/Hardware_Setup_with_CCS/J721E_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   How_to_Guides/Hardware_Setup_with_CCS/J7200_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   How_to_Guides/Hardware_Setup_with_CCS/J721S2_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   How_to_Guides/Hardware_Setup_with_CCS/AM68_SK_Hardware_Setup
   How_to_Guides/Hardware_Setup_with_CCS/J784S4_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   How_to_Guides/Hardware_Setup_with_CCS/AM69_SK_Hardware_Setup
   How_to_Guides/Hardware_Setup_with_CCS/J742S2_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   How_to_Guides/Hardware_Setup_with_CCS/AM62x_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   How_to_Guides/Hardware_Setup_with_CCS/AM62Px_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   How_to_Guides/Hardware_Setup_with_CCS/AM62Lx_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   How_to_Guides/Hardware_Setup_with_CCS/AM64x_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   How_to_Guides/Hardware_Setup_with_CCS/J722S_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   How_to_Guides/Hardware_Setup_with_CCS/AM62Dx_EVM_Hardware_Setup

Commit message:

refactor(hw-setup): remove unnecessary includes
Replace these 1 line include files with a TOC tree pointer to the
primary file. This can help with switching between distro builds as the
path of common files no longer changes.

We currently have 2 different mechanisms to complicate things. One is
the TOC tree, the other is arbitrary includes. Modifying the TOC tree is
a little hard to parse ahead of time, but it results in a lower
likelihood of accidentally creating duplicate content. Using includes
results in more files and a deeper file chain you need to parse, but it
is clearer ahead of time what is occurring.

I'm in favor of using the TOC tree since that's where a lot of
complexity already resides.

Signed-off-by: Randolph Sapp <rs@ti.com>

source/linux/How_to_Guides_Hardware_Setup_with_CCS.rst, after:

.. _hardware-evm-setup:

**********************************
Hardware EVM Setup
**********************************

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 5

   ../../common/How_to_Guides/TMDX654_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   ../../common/How_to_Guides/AM572x_GP_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   ../../common/How_to_Guides/TMDXIDK5728_Hardware_Setup
   ../../common/How_to_Guides/EVMK2H_Hardware_Setup
   ../../common/How_to_Guides/ICE_AM335x_Hardware_Setup
   ../../common/How_to_Guides/ICE_AMIC110_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   ../../common/How_to_Guides/J721E_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   ../../common/How_to_Guides/J7200_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   ../../common/How_to_Guides/J721S2_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   ../../common/How_to_Guides/AM68_SK_Hardware_Setup
   ../../common/How_to_Guides/J784S4_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   ../../common/How_to_Guides/AM69_SK_Hardware_Setup
   ../../common/How_to_Guides/J742S2_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   ../../common/How_to_Guides/AM62x_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   ../../common/How_to_Guides/AM62Px_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   ../../common/How_to_Guides/AM62Lx_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   ../../common/How_to_Guides/AM64x_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   ../../common/How_to_Guides/J722S_EVM_Hardware_Setup
   ../../common/How_to_Guides/AM62Dx_EVM_Hardware_Setup
